content/posts/things-liked-2020.md, before:

---
title: "Things I Liked in 2020 (So far)"
description: "Ah nothing but good times."
date: 2020-11-11
toc: true
---

This year has been something. Still though, I want to start of this blogging thing on a good note. So, here is a random compilation of things that I got to enjoy in 2020 so far.

<br>

## Programming Talks
Every once and a while I go on a tech talk binge. Below are some of my recent favorites. Some I have watched for the first time in this year regardless of when they came out.

### The Art of Code  

[![Thumbnail for The Art of Code video](https://i1.ytimg.com/vi/6avJHaC3C2U/hqdefault.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6avJHaC3C2U)

Like most programmers, I think of coding only in the context of productivity. Whether it be work, school, or side projects, they are done for an external benefit or to solve a problem. Dylan Beattie instead explores coding as an art medium. He goes through many examples of the wild things that people have created. My favorite being the Quine Relay, a program that generates a program in different programming language which itself does the same for a continuous cycle that cover 128 programming languages.  
This talk is just non-stop mind-blowing demonstrations of human creativity in this tech era.

### Clean Code - Uncle Bob  

[![Thumbnail for Clean Code - Uncle Bob Video](https://i.ytimg.com/vi_webp/7EmboKQH8lM/maxresdefault.webp)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7EmboKQH8lM)



A series of 6 lessons by Robert C. Martin (affectionately referred to as Uncle Bob). I just started on this series of lessons recently, but as always listening to Uncle Bob is nothing short of mesmerizing. There are few in the industry with the knowledge and expertise in software development like Uncle Bob, and even fewer that articulate that knowledge as well as he does.   
If you are unfamiliar with Uncle Bob, I recommend checking out his book [Clean Code](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3735293-clean-code) and my favorite talk of his [The Scribe's Oath](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tng6Fox8EfI).  

### Compilers For Nothing, Executables For Free! 

[![Thumbnail for Compilers For Nothing, Executables For Free! Video](https://i.ytimg.com/vi_webp/Dcug6bu_wUE/maxresdefault.webp)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dcug6bu_wUE)

Lastly, a short (coming in at 8 minutes only) and fun talk that descends down the rabbit-hole that is specializers (specialized interpreters), all in the name of what's right & Vim.  

<br>

## Video Games

Most of these games came out last year, but I was only able to get around to them this year. Also as a rule, I decided to only include single-player games, as such no Valorant (which I sunk an ungodly amount of time into), Among Us, etc.

### Outer Wilds  

With the risk of sounding hyperbolic, this is probably my favorite game of all-time now. And that statement has remained the same since I finished it in January. The way Outer Wilds interweaves story and exploration in such a unique and delightful manner is an experience to be had. 

Personally I've never been one for exploration, but that was because usually that directly interfered with my progress in the story. Exploring for the sake of exploring - though fun - just doesn;t strike me as enjoyable as unpeeling a good storyline is. And Outer Wilds manages to combine exploration directly with the story. So this way, you are rewarded two-fold when you explore, once for the amazing and unique planetary design that is a scene to behold, and once for the story bits that you pick up on along the way. 

Overall, Outer Wilds is just an absolute masterpiece in narrative and non-linear story-telling. And to me it is a testement to the unique storytelling capabilities of video games. I simply cannot recommend this game enough.  


### Baba Is You 

Also an Indie darling from 2019, Baba Is You manages to make puzzle games - typically my least favorite genre - fun for me. A simple but mind-bogglingly innovative gameplay coupled with tight level design and just the most adorable protagonist, what else can you ask for.  
Baba Is You isn't the type of game you "finish" thanks to the plethora of levels (about 200) or at least that is if you are as bad as I am with puzzles.  
Instead it is the kind of game that you pop on every once and a while and solve as few levels before your brain melts and you get stuck and call it a night lest you give into googling a walkthrough. But god is it satisfying to figure out these puzzles, they truly force you to think outside the box and it just so good at it doing it consistently.  

### Hades  

Lastly, Hades, a game that actually this year (if you ignore that it was in early access for a year).   
I'm still working through this game currently, but I can sing it nothing but praises. This game is truly embodies the meaning of polish. Every single part is just fantastic, from combat, voice-acting, to character design and storytelling. Hades just goes above and beyond to rewarding you for having a good or a bad run. The timings of when you unlock new upgrades is so well tuned, that you never feel stuck for too long. And when you die, you have often new dialogue and (sometimes) story to look forward to.   
In a twisted way, Supergiant Games made dying in Hades somehow a truly enjoyable experience. If that sounds up your ally, than definitely give this a try, cause I truly believe there is something in this game for everyone to enjoy.

<br>

## To be continued

This article has gotten longer than I had anticipated, so I'll call it here for now. But, I will append a part 2 to this before the year ends, with more things I enjoyed including Blogs, Books, TV/Movie, and Anime. Hopefully with more recent & fresh things to rave about next time.

Commit message:

amended few stuff in the Things liked in 2020 post

content/posts/things-liked-2020.md, after:

---
title: "Things I Liked in 2020 (So far)"
description: "Ah nothing but good times."
date: 2020-11-11
toc: true
---

---

*Updated 02/02/2022*:  
Removed "to be continued" section, and a talk by Robert C. Martin. Turns out he's *quite* the asshole.

---

This year has been something. Still though, I want to start of this blogging thing on a good note. So, here is a random compilation of things that I got to enjoy in 2020 so far.

<br>

## Programming Talks
Every once and a while I go on a tech talk binge. Below are some of my recent favorites. Some I have watched for the first time in this year regardless of when they came out.

### The Art of Code  

[![Thumbnail for The Art of Code video](https://i1.ytimg.com/vi/6avJHaC3C2U/hqdefault.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6avJHaC3C2U)

Like most programmers, I think of coding only in the context of productivity. Whether it be work, school, or side projects, they are done for an external benefit or to solve a problem. Dylan Beattie instead explores coding as an art medium. He goes through many examples of the wild things that people have created. My favorite being the Quine Relay, a program that generates a program in different programming language which itself does the same for a continuous cycle that cover 128 programming languages.  
This talk is just non-stop mind-blowing demonstrations of human creativity in this tech era.


### Compilers For Nothing, Executables For Free! 

[![Thumbnail for Compilers For Nothing, Executables For Free! Video](https://i.ytimg.com/vi_webp/Dcug6bu_wUE/maxresdefault.webp)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dcug6bu_wUE)

Lastly, a short (coming in at 8 minutes only) and fun talk that descends down the rabbit-hole that is specializers (specialized interpreters), all in the name of what's right & Vim.  

<br>

## Video Games

Most of these games came out last year, but I was only able to get around to them this year. Also as a rule, I decided to only include single-player games, as such no Valorant (which I sunk an ungodly amount of time into), Among Us, etc.

### Outer Wilds  

With the risk of sounding hyperbolic, this is probably my favorite game of all-time now. And that statement has remained the same since I finished it in January. The way Outer Wilds interweaves story and exploration in such a unique and delightful manner is an experience to be had. 

Personally I've never been one for exploration, but that was because usually that directly interfered with my progress in the story. Exploring for the sake of exploring - though fun - just doesn;t strike me as enjoyable as unpeeling a good storyline is. And Outer Wilds manages to combine exploration directly with the story. So this way, you are rewarded two-fold when you explore, once for the amazing and unique planetary design that is a scene to behold, and once for the story bits that you pick up on along the way. 

Overall, Outer Wilds is just an absolute masterpiece in narrative and non-linear story-telling. And to me it is a testement to the unique storytelling capabilities of video games. I simply cannot recommend this game enough.  


### Baba Is You 

Also an Indie darling from 2019, Baba Is You manages to make puzzle games - typically my least favorite genre - fun for me. A simple but mind-bogglingly innovative gameplay coupled with tight level design and just the most adorable protagonist, what else can you ask for.  
Baba Is You isn't the type of game you "finish" thanks to the plethora of levels (about 200) or at least that is if you are as bad as I am with puzzles.  
Instead it is the kind of game that you pop on every once and a while and solve as few levels before your brain melts and you get stuck and call it a night lest you give into googling a walkthrough. But god is it satisfying to figure out these puzzles, they truly force you to think outside the box and it just so good at it doing it consistently.  

### Hades  

Lastly, Hades, a game that actually this year (if you ignore that it was in early access for a year).   
I'm still working through this game currently, but I can sing it nothing but praises. This game is truly embodies the meaning of polish. Every single part is just fantastic, from combat, voice-acting, to character design and storytelling. Hades just goes above and beyond to rewarding you for having a good or a bad run. The timings of when you unlock new upgrades is so well tuned, that you never feel stuck for too long. And when you die, you have often new dialogue and (sometimes) story to look forward to.   
In a twisted way, Supergiant Games made dying in Hades somehow a truly enjoyable experience. If that sounds up your ally, than definitely give this a try, cause I truly believe there is something in this game for everyone to enjoy.

<br>
